# [BlueConduit](https://blueconduit.com/) Experimental Working Group

### Info
| **Aspect** | **Description** |
| :---: | :---: |
| audience  | Product, Engineering, Data Science |
| cadence   | Every thrird Tuesday |
| duration  | One hour |
| organizer | Ivy Bennett-Ford |

## Purpose
We at BlueConduit wish to engage meaningfully with data science and software engineering research generated by, or closely affecting, the communities with which we cocreate lead-free futures. From this literature review, generated ideas will be presented to the Product team for future development. 

## Meeting Structure
A paper will be presented and discussed for the first 30 minutes of this session. The remaining 30 minutes will be spent discussing a book about ethical data science and/or topics sourced from our partner-communities.

##### Suggested format for papers (30 minutes)
    1. Suggested materials and structure document will be supplied one week in advance.
    2. Formats(s):
        A. Assigned paper(s) 
        B. Read-along as a group
        C. Participant-selected paper
    3. Read quietly for 15-20 minutes
    4. Give the facillitator a 'silent-cue' to let them know you're done: turn video back on, a private message, etc.
    5. Make observational notes for 3 minutes
    6. Discuss as a group, pulling out any action items as they come up
Though participation is key, it can look different from person to person. Try to read as much as you can, focusing on the abstract and methods. The goal here is to make connections and learn new things related to our work at BlueConduit.

##### Suggested format for books (30 minutes)
    1. Make notes in a shared virtual whiteboard for 5 minutes. 
    2. Take around 45 seconds to vote on notes that stand out.
    3. Spend the remaining 25 minutes of the session in discussion about the text and ideas.

## Research source
Suggested papers will be cached [here](../working-group/docs/external-publications.md). Material can be tracked on [this calendar](../working-group/docs/texts.md). 

## Rights and Responsibilities of the Readers
- The reader is responsible for offering critique aligned with BlueConduit's [core values](https://blueconduit.com/the-company/).
- The reader has the right to freely voice to the group whatever ideas might occur to them in the course of study
- The reader has the right to challenge another member's ideas during discussion
